# Zogar’s Revenge

## Objetive

Your goal is to enter Zogar’s Lair and retrieve the stolen crown without either
being spotted by Zogar himself or being eliminated by his fowl minions.

## Gameplay

Play consists of moving from room to room (tile to tile) in the dungeon. You
may move to any adjacent tile, but may not move diagonally. At the beginning of
the game all four lamps are lit and this effects the flipping of tiles during
exploration. During this first phase, you move to an adjacent tile and flip
over the tile you just left behind. In this way you see plainly where your
character is going, but the room you leave changes behind you.

> NOTE: You do not flip the ladder tile when you leave it. The ladder tile is
flipped later as a result of turning off all four lamps.

Your first objective is to turn off all four of the lamps located in each of
the four corners of the dungeon. When a lit lamp is reached by the Character
Chit, it is immediately flipped to reveal the turned-off side of the lamp tile
while the Character Chit is still in that location.

Once all four lamps are turned off the ladder tile is flipped over to reveal
the secret room containing the crown! Your new mission is to make your way to
the crown. However, once all four lamps are turned off, the way you move and
flip tiles changes. Now you must flip and reveal the tile you plan to move to
and leave the tile you left behind alone. This is to simulate moving about in
the darkness. Once you reach the crown in the center, you take the Crown Tile
into your possession.

Now you must turn on all the lamps again to reveal the ladder so you can make
your escape. The way you move and flip tiles remains the same until all four
lamps are back on and then things convert back to the way they were in the
beginning of the game. Make your way to the ladder and if you succeed you win!

## Exploring the Dungeon

There are three main types of Dungeon Tiles that you will encounter during
exploration.

1. Monsters. When you land on a tile with a monster image on it, you must
defeat the monster in combat or die trying. Combat is covered in the next
section.

2. Treasures. Many tiles have an image of a treasure chest on them. When you
land on one of these tiles you must draw a random treasure tile. *NOTE: Some of
these tiles have am eye icon on them. When you land on one of these tiles, you
must take a Spot Token and draw a Treasure Chit*.
    * ┼ Crosses can be spent to prevent having to take a Spot Token.
    * Potions can be spent to restore 1 loss Health Chit.
    * ║ A sword may be spent to increase an attack value during combat by 1.
    * Coins are often found and they add to your score at the end of the game.
    * Traps deal 1 damage. Ouch!
    * If you find an eye icon you must have made too much noise opening the
    chest and you must take a Spot Token.

3. Zogar’s Gaze: Whenever you land on a tile with the piercing gaze of Zogar
(big eyeball), you must take a Spot Token. If at any moment you acquire the
last Spot Token (14 total) you are captured by Zogar himself and you lose.

## Combat

Each monster you come into contact with has a power value indicated on their
tile. Your goal is to deal enough damage to destroy them before they can strike
back at you. Dealing damage is done by moving your Character Chit on your
Player Tiles. You may move the Character Chit to one of the adjacent tiles, but
not diagonally, and whatever value you land on is the damage you deal to the
monster. You must immediately flip the Player Tile that you left behind.  If
the value you land on is equal to, or greater than, the power value of the
monster you are engaged with, you destroy them and suffer zero damage. However,
if you fail to destroy them, you lose 1 health Chit. You now must move your
Character Chit again in an attempt to destroy your foe, adding the new result
to the last (always remember to flip the tile you left behind). If the sum of
both results is high enough to defeat the foe, you can move on. If not, you
lose another Health Chit. Repeat this, adding the previous sum, until either
you conquer the monster or you yourself lose your last Health Chit, at which
point you die and lose the game. Landing on an eye icon on your Player Tiles
results in gaining a Spot Token.

## Scoring

Add up values of all the coins you have gathered from treasure chests to get
your base score. You then may add 10 more points to your score for retrieving
the crown and an additional 10 points if you escape the dungeon with the crown
and win the game.  Remember to check out the additional dungeon layouts to add
increased difficulty to the game!
